---
title: Using cURL to Seed Database
---

This post is for anyone looking to find a way to seed a database with cURL. I will try and give a template that can be copied relatively easy. If you are unsure how to create simple cURL commands for GET and POST requests, please refer to my last blog post.

-- Create a file called curl.sh

-- For each request, you will need to follow this template of four lines

1. `echo ..., press any key to continue` where ... is whatever the following curl command will do.
2. `read input_variable`
3. `curl ...` where ... is whatever you want the cURL command to do.
4. `echo finished ...` where ... is similar to 1's ...

After you have filled out all your requests, you will move onto the next step, but I advise you to be cautious of the order of cURL commands. For example, be sure you aren't attempting to update a value in database with cURL when you haven't even posted the value.

-- In terminal, type `chmod +x curl.sh` and then hit return. Now you will be able to specify the curl.sh filepath and it will be run. If you are in the directory where curl.sh is present, simple type `./curl.sh`, hit return, and you your cURL commands will run and you can hit return to confirm entering each route.

Now you have a way to easily seed your database using cURL, but that isn't all this is useful for. I actually find it very useful for checking complex routes in the server that rely on other requests to have already been made. For example, I don't want to manually enter in 10 users to a database every time I make a change to a server file to see if my /updateUser route works.
